Mishnah Ketubot 3:1 — Men who rape a relative or a mensturating woman are forced to pay the woman a financial penalty. This is because [reason].

The Talmud then notes that Mishnah Makkot 3:1 states that in the same list of scenarios where a man rapes a relative, the man is lashed. However, it is an established principle in Rabbinic law that a person cannot be both lashed and forced to pay a monetary penalty for the same crime. So, the Talmud posits this question:

Question 1: Why don't these two Mishnahs contradict each other? 

Solution A: Ulla
    Answer to Question 1: Ulla says there is no contradiction because Mishnah Ketubot is referring to an adolescent girl (na'arah) whereas Mishna Makkot is refering to an adult woman (bogeret). 
        Explanation: Applied to the first case, because the man must pay a fine to the girl's father, he is not lashed. In the second case, because there is no fine payed to the father, lashes are the appropriate punishment.

        Talmud asks Question A2: But even in the case of an adult woman, doesn't the offender have to pay penalties for causing shame and blemish?
        Talmud answers A2: No, because Makkot is considering a woman who is an "imbecile".
        Note: An imbecile, wheather adolescent or mature, has no reputation to lose and her virginity is not worth any monetary amount.

            Talmud asks Question A3: But even if the adult woman is an imbecile, doesn't the offender have to pay penalties for the pain inflicted?
            Talmud answers Question A3: Makkot is referring to a case where the adult woman is seduced, not raped, so she experiences pleasure instead of pain.

    The Talmud generalizes Ulla's position: when there is a possibility of both fines and lashes, the offender only pays the fine.

    Question A1: From where does Ulla know that monetary penalties are given precedence over lashes?
        Answer 1 to A1: The rules regarding personal injury.
            Explanation: The rules regarding personal injury say that given the possibility of both fines and lashes, the offender only pays the fine.
            Rejection: In personal injury cases the financial penalty is five-fold, so it cannot be extrapolated to the cases of incest in the Mishnah.

        Answer 2 to A1: The rules regarding edim zommemim (scheming witnesses)
            Explanation: The rules regarding personal injury say that given the possibility of both fines and lashes, the offender only pays the fine.
            Rejection: In the case of edim zommemim, the scheming witnesses can be punished even if they are not given a warning.

        Answer 3 to A1: A combination of the rules regarding personal injury and edim zommemim.
            Explanation: In both the case of personal injury and in the case of edim zommemim, given the possibility of both fines and lashes, the offender only pays the fine. Therefore it can be extrapolated that in all scenarios the fine takes precedence over lashes.
            Rejection: Another commonality between the personal injury and edim zommemim is that they are exceptional cases — the personal injury fine is five-fold and edim zommemim do not need a warning — so you cannot extrapolate anything from them.


        Answer 4 to A1: A gezerah shavah connecting the word "for" (tachas)
            Explanation: Dueteronomy 22:29 refers to a man raping a virgin having to pay a fine "for he has violated her." Exodus 21:24 says that in cases of assult, the compensation must be "an eye for eye." Because both verses use the Hebrew word "tachas" as the word "for," the anonymous Talmudic editor speculates that Ulla might have concluded that because in the case of assult, monetary fines takes precedence over lashes, that principle also applies in the cases of sexual violation.

Solution B: Rav Johanan
    Answer to Question 1: Rav Johanan says there is no contradiction because even if both mishnahs are referring to an adolescent girl because Ketubot is referring to a case where the offender recieved prior warning whereas Makkot is refering to a case where the offender recieved prior warning.
    
    The Talmud generalizes Rav Johanan's position: when there is a possibility of both fines and lashes, the offender is lashed. (In contrast with Ulla's conclusion.)

    Question B1: From where does Yohanan know that lashes take precedence over monetary penalties?

        Answer 1 to B1: Dueteronomy 25:2-3
            Explanation: Dueteronomy says "The judge shall cast him down and lash him...in accordance with his wickidness. Forty [lashes] he shall strike him." Because wickidness is a singular noun and it is followed by a count of lashes, the Talmud infers that lashes take precedence.
            Rejection and Question B2: In the cases of personal injury and edim zommemim, fines take precedence over lashes. Why don't these exceptions raise a contradiction?

            Answer 1 to B2: R. Illa said that the Torah explicitly made exceptions for personal injury and edim zommemim.

                Aside and Question B3: What is the context of R. Illa's statement.
                Answer: In the context of Mishnah Makkot 1:2 in which R. Meir says that edim zommememim both pay the fine and are lashed and in which the Sages say that "whoever pays is not lashed."

                    Question B4: Why do the Sages say that fines take precedence over lashes?
                    Answer to B4: R. Illa said that the Torah makes it clear that for edim zommemim, paying a penalty excludes the schemer from recieving lashes.

                        Question B5: Where does the Torah say this?
                        Answer 1 to B6: Midrashic analysis of Deuteronomy 19
                            Explanation: Deut 19:19 says, in the context of edim zommemim, "And you shall do to him as he conspired to do to his brother." This is repetative with Deut 19:21, "hand for hand." The superfluous verse implies that because money is passed from one hand to another, fines take precedence.

                        Answer 2 to B6: Midrashic analysis of Leviticus 24
                            Explanation: Lev. 24:19 says "if a man inflicts a wound in his fellow, as he did so shall it be done to him." Lev 24:20 says "just as he gave a would in person, so shall it be given to him." The second phrase is deemed superfluous and is there to teach that the punishment involves something that is given: money.

    Question B2: Why does Rav Johanan not agree with Ulla?

        Answer to B2: Accepting Ulla would mean annuling the law "the nakedness of your sister you shall not reveal." (Lev. 18:9)
        Explanation: Lev 18 says that in all cases of incest, the man must be lashed for seeing his sister naked. However, Ulla says that an offender is not lashed if he inappropriatly sleeps with an adolescent girl. Johanan doesn't like this contradiction. 

            Question B3: But doesn't Rav Johanan also annul the verse about personal injury, "Forty [lashes] he shall strike him. He shall not exceed this..."? (Deut 25:2-3)
                Explanation: This verse contradicts Johanan's belief that lashes take precedence over payment; in most cases of personal injury, the punishment is monetary.


            Question B4: Also, doesn't Rav Johanan annul the verse about edim zommemim, "And it shall be, if the wicked man is punishable by lashes"? (Deut 25:2)
                Explanation: This verse contradicts Johanan's belief that lashes take precedence over payment. Edim zommemim can only be punished with lashes if exceptional circumstances where the quid-pro-quo punishment isn't applicable.

            Given Questions B3 and B4, the Talmud rejects Answer 1 to B2.
                Explanation: Because it is possible to limit the fufillment of the verse in B4 to cases like one where edim zommemim testify that a witness is not a Kohen, so to is it possible to limit the verse in Johanan's answer to B2 to just the case where the sister is an adult woman.

    The Talmud now revisits the discussion of Question B6, where the Talmud suggests that for edim zommemim, payment takes precedence over lashes.

    Question B5: Why do edim zommemim pay a fine but are not lashed?

        Answer 1 to B5: R. Elazar: Because they are not warned.

            Question: How do we know this?
            Answer 1: Rava says it's impossible to warn scheming witnesses
                Explanation: Rava cites three scenarios. If you warn them beforehand, edim zommemim will just say that they forgot. If you warn every person right at the moment before they testify, then nobody will ever testify. Warning them at the end serves no purpose.

                Objection A from Abaye: Warn them immediatley after they testify and give them the option to recant their testimony.

                    Objection B to A: Rav Aha says to warn them from the beginning and give them "hints" to remind the witnesses throughout the testimony so they can't claim to have forgotten.

                Abaye carifies Objection A: 



    

